---
title: 'Product development guide #2'
description: 'How to manage development processes part 2'
pubDate: 2023-12-26
slug: 2023-12-26-dev-guide-2
tags: ['general development']
series:
  id: 'product-dev-guide'
  order: 2
---

Sometimes all of us need to work with customers who have no technical background. They ask us to develop something useful or fix some issue, but think that everyone understand what they mean. Especially for those cases, I wrote a template for task description and bug report. Hope it will help you.

### Task Description Format

- **Brief Description (Title):** Provide a concise title for the task.
- **Design Reference (for Frontend):** Include a link to the design if applicable.
- **Input Parameters and Conditions (if applicable):** Specify any prerequisites, such as user login or service activation.
- **Output Parameters:** Describe the expected outcome or changes resulting from the task.
- **Positive Scenarios:** Outline the correct steps a user should follow to successfully complete the task.
- **Negative Scenarios:** Describe situations where users input incorrect data or system failures occur.
- **Input Data Validation Criteria:** Specify criteria for input data validity, e.g., password complexity checks or allowed characters in usernames.
- **Texts for Buttons, Messages, Emails, and Notifications:** Include text content in all languages used within the application.
- **Accessibility Requirements (if applicable):** Detail accessibility requirements for visually impaired users, individuals with motor disabilities, etc.
- **User Roles with Access:** Specify which user roles should have access to this task.

### Bug Description Format

- **Brief Description (Title):** Provide a concise title for the bug.
- **Date and Time of Occurrence:** Record the date and time when the bug occurred.
- **Device Type and Model (for Mobile Apps) or Browser (for Web Apps):** Specify the device or browser used.
- **Operating System Version and Type:** Note the OS version and type.
- **Application Version:** Mention the version of the application.
- **Steps to Reproduce:** List the actions taken to reproduce the bug.
- **Outcome and Visual Evidence:** Describe what occurred as a result and include screenshots and/or videos, if applicable.
- **Frequency and Affected Devices/Users:** Indicate how often the bug occurs and how many users or devices it impacts.
